README.md, before:

# PreferenceActivityCompat
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](./LICENSE)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](https://github.com/ohmae/preference-activity-compat/releases)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](https://github.com/ohmae/preference-activity-compat/issues)
[![GitHub closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](https://github.com/ohmae/preference-activity-compat/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed)
[![Maven Repository](https://img.shields.io/badge/maven-jcenter-brightgreen.svg)](https://bintray.com/ohmae/maven/net.mm2d.preference)
[![Maven metadata URI](https://img.shields.io/maven-metadata/v/https/jcenter.bintray.com/net/mm2d/preference/maven-metadata.xml.svg)](https://bintray.com/ohmae/maven/net.mm2d.preference)

This is a compatibility library of `PreferenceActivity`.

This class can be used in much the same way as `PreferenceActivity`.
Moreover, the material design is applied, It is also possible to manage `PreferenceFragmentCompat` instead of `PreferenceFragment`.

## Background

As you know,
[`PreferenceFragmentCompat`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v7/preference/PreferenceFragmentCompat)
which is a compatibility class corresponding to [`PreferenceFragment`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/preference/PreferenceFragment)
is provided in SupportLibrary.
([`com.android.support:preference-v7`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/support-library/packages#v7-preference))
But compatibility class corresponding to [`PreferenceActivity`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/preference/PreferenceActivity) is not provided.

When adding a new activity in AndroidStudio, `AppCompatPreferenceActivity` is created by selecting "Settings Activity" from the gallery.
Guessing from the name of "`AppCompatPreferenceActivity`", we will get an impression like the `PreferenceActivity` version of `AppCompatActivity`.
In the fact, it allows us to use some new APIs, but doesn't allows we to use material design theme in Android 4.x.

Also, since `AppCompatPreferenceActivity` can inflate only native Fragment, it can not inflate `PreferenceFragmentCompat` inheriting Fragment of support library.
There is also a Support Library version of [`PreferenceFragment`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v14/preference/PreferenceFragment)
that inherits the native Fragment.

But **the native Fragment is deprecated**.

## Screenshots

### Android 4.4 (Tablet)

|PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:|Native PreferenceActivity:scream:|
|-|-|
|![](readme/4C4.png)|![](readme/4N4.png)|
|![](readme/4C5.png)|![](readme/4N5.png)|

### Android 7.1 (Tablet)

|PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:|Native PreferenceActivity:smile:|
|-|-|
|![](readme/7C4.png)|![](readme/7N4.png)|
|![](readme/7C5.png)|![](readme/7N5.png)|

### Android 4.4 (Phone)

#### PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:

|![](readme/4C1.png)|![](readme/4C2.png)|![](readme/4C3.png)|
|-|-|-|

#### Native PreferenceActivity:scream:

|![](readme/4N1.png)|![](readme/4N2.png)|![](readme/4N3.png)|
|-|-|-|

### Android 7.1 (Phone)

#### PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:

|![](readme/7C1.png)|![](readme/7C2.png)|![](readme/7C3.png)|
|-|-|-|

#### Native PreferenceActivity:smile:

|![](readme/7N1.png)|![](readme/7N2.png)|![](readme/7N3.png)|
|-|-|-|

## How to use

*jCenter will close in May. I am currently considering migrating to another hosting service. Please wait.*

Download from jCenter. Add dependencies, as following.
```gradle
repositories {
    jcenter()
}
dependencies {
    implementation 'net.mm2d:preference:0.2.2'
}
```

0.1.0~ this library depends on androidx.
If you need to use support library 28.0.0, use 0.0.4.

If you are using ProGuard, to load preference-header from xml, you might need to add the following option.
```
-keep public class * extends androidx.preference.PreferenceFragmentCompat
```

## Restriction

This class is only partially compatible with
[`PreferenceActivity`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/preference/PreferenceActivity).
Only functions that are likely to be used are implemented.

e.g.
- The method to handle Preference is deprecated in Activity and is not implemented.
- [`FragmentBreadCrumbs`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/FragmentBreadCrumbs) is not used.

This class can handle only `preference-headers`.

This class was created with the premise of using
[`PreferenceFragmentCompat`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/PreferenceFragmentCompat).
Therefore, it is not a restriction of this class itself, but it has the same restrictions as `PreferenceFragmentCompat`.

- We can't use `RingtonePreference`.
This is because `RingtonePreference` doesn't exist in the
[`androidx.preference`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/package-summary) package.
- `SwitchPreference` does not apply material design.
Because
[`androidx.preference.SwitchPreference`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/SwitchPreference)
is inflated.
If you want to apply material design, use
[`SwitchPreferenceCompat`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/SwitchPreferenceCompat)
instead.

[`androidx.preference`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/package-summary) has various problems, so I recommend to use this library together with other OSS for further improvement.

Please see the next section.

## Migrate from AppCompatPreferenceActivity

### 1. Add `preferenceTheme` in `PreferenceActivity`'s theme.
```xml
    <style name="AppTheme" parent="Theme.AppCompat.Light.DarkActionBar">
        <item name="colorPrimary">@color/colorPrimary</item>
        <item name="colorPrimaryDark">@color/colorPrimaryDark</item>
        <item name="colorAccent">@color/colorAccent</item>

+        <item name="preferenceTheme">@style/PreferenceCompatTheme</item>
    </style>
```

### 2. Replace `SettingsActivity`'s super class
```java
- public class SettingsActivity extends AppCompatPreferenceActivity {
+ public class SettingsActivity extends PreferenceActivityCompat {
```

At that time, change the `isValidFragment` from `protected` to `public`.
```java
    @Override
-     protected boolean isValidFragment(final String fragmentName) {
+     public boolean isValidFragment(final String fragmentName) {
```

If you override `onMenuItemSelected`, replace it with `onOptionsItemSelected`.
```java
    @Override
-    public boolean onMenuItemSelected(int featureId, MenuItem item) {
+    public boolean onOptionsItemSelected(final MenuItem item) {
        final int id = item.getItemId();
        if (id == android.R.id.home) {
-            if (!super.onMenuItemSelected(featureId, item)) {
+            if (!super.onOptionsItemSelected(item)) {
                NavUtils.navigateUpFromSameTask(this);
            }
            return true;
        }
-        return super.onMenuItemSelected(featureId, item);
+        return super.onOptionsItemSelected(item);
    }
```

If you use Kotlin.
`onBuildHeaders` argument type must be `MutableList`.
Because `PreferenceActivityCompat` is implemented by Kotlin.

```kotlin
-    override fun onBuildHeaders(target: List<Header>)
+    override fun onBuildHeaders(target: MutableList<Header>)
```

### 3. Replace `PreferenceFragment` to `PreferenceFragmentCompat`

And implement `onCreatePreferences` instead of `onCreate`

```java
-     public static class GeneralPreferenceFragment extends PreferenceFragment {
+     public static class GeneralPreferenceFragment extends PreferenceFragmentCompat {
        @Override
-         public void onCreate(final Bundle savedInstanceState) {
-             super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
+         public void onCreatePreferences(final Bundle savedInstanceState,final String rootKey) {
            addPreferencesFromResource(R.xml.native_pref_general);
        }
```

### 4. Change package import

Use `net.mm2d.preference.Header` instead of `android.preference.PreferenceActivity.Header`

```java
- import android.preference.PreferenceActivity.Header;
+ import net.mm2d.preference.Header;
```

Use `androidx.preference` instead of `android.preference`

```java
- import android.preference.ListPreference;
- import android.preference.Preference;
- import android.preference.Preference.OnPreferenceChangeListener;
- import android.preference.PreferenceFragment;
- import android.preference.PreferenceManager;
+ import androidx.preference.ListPreference;
+ import androidx.preference.Preference;
+ import androidx.preference.Preference.OnPreferenceChangeListener;
+ import androidx.preference.PreferenceFragmentCompat;
+ import androidx.preference.PreferenceManager;
```

### 5. Change namespace of attributes to `app` instead of `android` in xml of `preference-headers`

```xml
<preference-headers
-     xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
+     xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto">
    <header
-         android:fragment="net.mm2d.preference.sample.SettingsActivity$GeneralPreferenceFragment"
-         android:icon="@drawable/ic_info_black_24dp"
-         android:title="@string/pref_header_general"
+         app:fragment="net.mm2d.preference.sample.SettingsActivity$GeneralPreferenceFragment"
+         app:icon="@drawable/ic_info_black_24dp"
+         app:title="@string/pref_header_general"
        />
```

### 6. Replace `SwtichPreference` to `SwitchPreferenceCompat`, if you need

(This is a description of PreferenceFragmentCompat, not this library)

```xml
<PreferenceScreen xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
-     <SwitchPreference
+     <!--suppress AndroidElementNotAllowed -->
+     <SwitchPreferenceCompat
        android:defaultValue="true"
        android:key="example_switch"
        android:summary="@string/pref_description_social_recommendations"
        android:title="@string/pref_title_social_recommendations"
        />
```

Because SwitchPreference looks legacy in Android 4.4 or less.

|SwitchPreference|SwitchPreferenceCompat|
|:-:|:-:|
|![](readme/switch-preference.png)|![](readme/switch-preference-compat.png)|

If your target is Android 5 or later, you do not have to replace it.

### 7. Add `app:iconSpaceReserved="false"`, If you do not need the space for the icon

(This is a description of PreferenceFragmentCompat, not this library)

```xml
    <Preference
        android:title="@string/pref_title_system_sync_settings"
+         app:iconSpaceReserved="false"
        >
```

|default|`app:iconSpaceReserved="false"`|
|:-:|:-:|
|![](readme/icon-space-reserved-true.png)|![](readme/icon-space-reserved-false.png)|

## Dependent OSS

### PreferenceActivityCompat

- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/)
- [Android Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/)
  - androidx.appcompat:appcompat
  - androidx.preference:preference
  - androidx.core:core-ktx

### Sample app

- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/)
- [Android Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/)
  - androidx.appcompat:appcompat
  - androidx.preference:preference

## Author
大前 良介 (OHMAE Ryosuke)
http://www.mm2d.net/

## License
[MIT License](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

💚Migrate from bintray to maven central

README.md, after:

# PreferenceActivityCompat
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](./LICENSE)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](https://github.com/ohmae/preference-activity-compat/releases)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](https://github.com/ohmae/preference-activity-compat/issues)
[![GitHub closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/ohmae/preference-activity-compat.svg)](https://github.com/ohmae/preference-activity-compat/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed)
![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/net.mm2d.preference/preference)

This is a compatibility library of `PreferenceActivity`.

This class can be used in much the same way as `PreferenceActivity`.
Moreover, the material design is applied, It is also possible to manage `PreferenceFragmentCompat` instead of `PreferenceFragment`.

## Background

As you know,
[`PreferenceFragmentCompat`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v7/preference/PreferenceFragmentCompat)
which is a compatibility class corresponding to [`PreferenceFragment`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/preference/PreferenceFragment)
is provided in SupportLibrary.
([`com.android.support:preference-v7`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/support-library/packages#v7-preference))
But compatibility class corresponding to [`PreferenceActivity`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/preference/PreferenceActivity) is not provided.

When adding a new activity in AndroidStudio, `AppCompatPreferenceActivity` is created by selecting "Settings Activity" from the gallery.
Guessing from the name of "`AppCompatPreferenceActivity`", we will get an impression like the `PreferenceActivity` version of `AppCompatActivity`.
In the fact, it allows us to use some new APIs, but doesn't allows we to use material design theme in Android 4.x.

Also, since `AppCompatPreferenceActivity` can inflate only native Fragment, it can not inflate `PreferenceFragmentCompat` inheriting Fragment of support library.
There is also a Support Library version of [`PreferenceFragment`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/support/v14/preference/PreferenceFragment)
that inherits the native Fragment.

But **the native Fragment is deprecated**.

## Screenshots

### Android 4.4 (Tablet)

|PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:|Native PreferenceActivity:scream:|
|-|-|
|![](readme/4C4.png)|![](readme/4N4.png)|
|![](readme/4C5.png)|![](readme/4N5.png)|

### Android 7.1 (Tablet)

|PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:|Native PreferenceActivity:smile:|
|-|-|
|![](readme/7C4.png)|![](readme/7N4.png)|
|![](readme/7C5.png)|![](readme/7N5.png)|

### Android 4.4 (Phone)

#### PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:

|![](readme/4C1.png)|![](readme/4C2.png)|![](readme/4C3.png)|
|-|-|-|

#### Native PreferenceActivity:scream:

|![](readme/4N1.png)|![](readme/4N2.png)|![](readme/4N3.png)|
|-|-|-|

### Android 7.1 (Phone)

#### PreferenceActivityCompat:smile:

|![](readme/7C1.png)|![](readme/7C2.png)|![](readme/7C3.png)|
|-|-|-|

#### Native PreferenceActivity:smile:

|![](readme/7N1.png)|![](readme/7N2.png)|![](readme/7N3.png)|
|-|-|-|

## How to use

jCenter will close in May. In 0.2.6 moved to mavenCentral from jcenter.  
Please note that the **groupID has changed**

Download from mavenCentral.  
The latest version is: ![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/net.mm2d.preference/preference)

```gradle
dependencies {
    implementation 'net.mm2d.preference:preference:0.2.6'
}
```

Versions below 0.2.6 were distributed with jCenter.
However, jCenter will close and old versions are not migrated to mavenCentral.
If you need an older version, please use the Github Pages repository.

```gradle
repositories {
    maven { url = URI("https://ohmae.github.com/maven") }
}
```

```gradle
dependencies {
    implementation 'net.mm2d.preference:preference:0.2.5'
}
```

0.1.0~ this library depends on androidx.
If you need to use support library 28.0.0, use 0.0.4.

If you are using ProGuard, to load preference-header from xml, you might need to add the following option.
```
-keep public class * extends androidx.preference.PreferenceFragmentCompat
```

## Restriction

This class is only partially compatible with
[`PreferenceActivity`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/preference/PreferenceActivity).
Only functions that are likely to be used are implemented.

e.g.
- The method to handle Preference is deprecated in Activity and is not implemented.
- [`FragmentBreadCrumbs`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/FragmentBreadCrumbs) is not used.

This class can handle only `preference-headers`.

This class was created with the premise of using
[`PreferenceFragmentCompat`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/PreferenceFragmentCompat).
Therefore, it is not a restriction of this class itself, but it has the same restrictions as `PreferenceFragmentCompat`.

- We can't use `RingtonePreference`.
This is because `RingtonePreference` doesn't exist in the
[`androidx.preference`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/package-summary) package.
- `SwitchPreference` does not apply material design.
Because
[`androidx.preference.SwitchPreference`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/SwitchPreference)
is inflated.
If you want to apply material design, use
[`SwitchPreferenceCompat`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/SwitchPreferenceCompat)
instead.

[`androidx.preference`](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/preference/package-summary) has various problems, so I recommend to use this library together with other OSS for further improvement.

Please see the next section.

## Migrate from AppCompatPreferenceActivity

### 1. Add `preferenceTheme` in `PreferenceActivity`'s theme.
```xml
    <style name="AppTheme" parent="Theme.AppCompat.Light.DarkActionBar">
        <item name="colorPrimary">@color/colorPrimary</item>
        <item name="colorPrimaryDark">@color/colorPrimaryDark</item>
        <item name="colorAccent">@color/colorAccent</item>

+        <item name="preferenceTheme">@style/PreferenceCompatTheme</item>
    </style>
```

### 2. Replace `SettingsActivity`'s super class
```java
- public class SettingsActivity extends AppCompatPreferenceActivity {
+ public class SettingsActivity extends PreferenceActivityCompat {
```

At that time, change the `isValidFragment` from `protected` to `public`.
```java
    @Override
-     protected boolean isValidFragment(final String fragmentName) {
+     public boolean isValidFragment(final String fragmentName) {
```

If you override `onMenuItemSelected`, replace it with `onOptionsItemSelected`.
```java
    @Override
-    public boolean onMenuItemSelected(int featureId, MenuItem item) {
+    public boolean onOptionsItemSelected(final MenuItem item) {
        final int id = item.getItemId();
        if (id == android.R.id.home) {
-            if (!super.onMenuItemSelected(featureId, item)) {
+            if (!super.onOptionsItemSelected(item)) {
                NavUtils.navigateUpFromSameTask(this);
            }
            return true;
        }
-        return super.onMenuItemSelected(featureId, item);
+        return super.onOptionsItemSelected(item);
    }
```

If you use Kotlin.
`onBuildHeaders` argument type must be `MutableList`.
Because `PreferenceActivityCompat` is implemented by Kotlin.

```kotlin
-    override fun onBuildHeaders(target: List<Header>)
+    override fun onBuildHeaders(target: MutableList<Header>)
```

### 3. Replace `PreferenceFragment` to `PreferenceFragmentCompat`

And implement `onCreatePreferences` instead of `onCreate`

```java
-     public static class GeneralPreferenceFragment extends PreferenceFragment {
+     public static class GeneralPreferenceFragment extends PreferenceFragmentCompat {
        @Override
-         public void onCreate(final Bundle savedInstanceState) {
-             super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
+         public void onCreatePreferences(final Bundle savedInstanceState,final String rootKey) {
            addPreferencesFromResource(R.xml.native_pref_general);
        }
```

### 4. Change package import

Use `net.mm2d.preference.Header` instead of `android.preference.PreferenceActivity.Header`

```java
- import android.preference.PreferenceActivity.Header;
+ import net.mm2d.preference.Header;
```

Use `androidx.preference` instead of `android.preference`

```java
- import android.preference.ListPreference;
- import android.preference.Preference;
- import android.preference.Preference.OnPreferenceChangeListener;
- import android.preference.PreferenceFragment;
- import android.preference.PreferenceManager;
+ import androidx.preference.ListPreference;
+ import androidx.preference.Preference;
+ import androidx.preference.Preference.OnPreferenceChangeListener;
+ import androidx.preference.PreferenceFragmentCompat;
+ import androidx.preference.PreferenceManager;
```

### 5. Change namespace of attributes to `app` instead of `android` in xml of `preference-headers`

```xml
<preference-headers
-     xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
+     xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto">
    <header
-         android:fragment="net.mm2d.preference.sample.SettingsActivity$GeneralPreferenceFragment"
-         android:icon="@drawable/ic_info_black_24dp"
-         android:title="@string/pref_header_general"
+         app:fragment="net.mm2d.preference.sample.SettingsActivity$GeneralPreferenceFragment"
+         app:icon="@drawable/ic_info_black_24dp"
+         app:title="@string/pref_header_general"
        />
```

### 6. Replace `SwtichPreference` to `SwitchPreferenceCompat`, if you need

(This is a description of PreferenceFragmentCompat, not this library)

```xml
<PreferenceScreen xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
-     <SwitchPreference
+     <!--suppress AndroidElementNotAllowed -->
+     <SwitchPreferenceCompat
        android:defaultValue="true"
        android:key="example_switch"
        android:summary="@string/pref_description_social_recommendations"
        android:title="@string/pref_title_social_recommendations"
        />
```

Because SwitchPreference looks legacy in Android 4.4 or less.

|SwitchPreference|SwitchPreferenceCompat|
|:-:|:-:|
|![](readme/switch-preference.png)|![](readme/switch-preference-compat.png)|

If your target is Android 5 or later, you do not have to replace it.

### 7. Add `app:iconSpaceReserved="false"`, If you do not need the space for the icon

(This is a description of PreferenceFragmentCompat, not this library)

```xml
    <Preference
        android:title="@string/pref_title_system_sync_settings"
+         app:iconSpaceReserved="false"
        >
```

|default|`app:iconSpaceReserved="false"`|
|:-:|:-:|
|![](readme/icon-space-reserved-true.png)|![](readme/icon-space-reserved-false.png)|

## Dependent OSS

### PreferenceActivityCompat

- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/)
- [Android Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/)
  - androidx.appcompat:appcompat
  - androidx.preference:preference
  - androidx.core:core-ktx

### Sample app

- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/)
- [Android Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/)
  - androidx.appcompat:appcompat
  - androidx.preference:preference

## Author
大前 良介 (OHMAE Ryosuke)
http://www.mm2d.net/

## License
[MIT License](./LICENSE)
